docs:#1607 doc Tiered Storage content in DescribeLogDirs (#1633)
redpanda-data/documentation: modules/manage/pages/iceberg/iceberg-topics-aws-glue.adoc

== Authorize access to AWS Glue

ifdef::env-cloud[]
For BYOC clusters created in March 2026 or later, the required AWS Glue IAM policy is automatically provisioned and attached to the Redpanda broker role when Iceberg is enabled. You don't need to manually create IAM policies or roles for Glue access.

For clusters created before March 2026, you must run `rpk byoc apply` to provision the Glue IAM policy before enabling Iceberg. This is a one-time operation that updates the broker role with the necessary Glue permissions.
endif::[]

> ifndef::env-cloud[]

Reviewer: @simon0191 Is this correct -- Cloud users won't have to do anything special for IAM, so the lines that follow this should display for Self-managed only?

Reviewer 2: correct

** config_ref:iceberg_rest_catalog_credentials_source,true,properties/cluster-properties[`iceberg_rest_catalog_credentials_source`] overrides config_ref:cloud_storage_credentials_source,true,properties/cluster-properties[`cloud_storage_credentials_source`]
** config_ref:iceberg_rest_catalog_aws_access_key,true,properties/cluster-properties[`iceberg_rest_catalog_aws_access_key`] overrides config_ref:cloud_storage_access_key,true,properties/cluster-properties[`cloud_storage_access_key`]
** config_ref:iceberg_rest_catalog_aws_secret_key,true,properties/cluster-properties[`iceberg_rest_catalog_aws_secret_key`] overrides config_ref:cloud_storage_secret_key,true,properties/cluster-properties[`cloud_storage_secret_key`]
** config_ref:iceberg_rest_catalog_aws_region,true,properties/cluster-properties[`iceberg_rest_catalog_aws_region`] overrides config_ref:cloud_storage_region,true,properties/cluster-properties[`cloud_storage_region`]
endif::[]

ifdef::env-cloud[]
You can configure credentials for the AWS Glue Data Catalog integration in either of the following ways:

> * Allow Redpanda to use the same object storage credential properties already configured for S3. If you do not configure the overrides listed below, Redpanda uses the same credentials for both S3 and AWS Glue. This is the recommended approach, especially in BYOC deployments where the cluster's existing AWS credentials already include the necessary Glue permissions.

Reviewer 3: If you do not configure the overrides listed below,...
^^ Are you referring to the overrides in the second option/bullet here? This threw me and I was like, where are these? If the overrides are the ones listed the second option/bullet, then I'm a bit confused as why are you talking about it in the first option//bullet?

Reviewer 3: Maybe: If you do not configure the overrides listed in the second option here,...

endif::[]

ifdef::env-cloud[]
You can configure credentials for the AWS Glue Data Catalog integration in either of the following ways:

> * Allow Redpanda to use the same `cloud_storage_*` credential properties already configured for S3. If you do not configure the overrides listed below, Redpanda uses the same credentials for both S3 and AWS Glue. This is the recommended approach, especially in BYOC deployments where the broker's IAM role already includes the necessary Glue permissions.

Reviewer 4: @kbatuigas these properties are not part of the user experience in RP Cloud. We should not be talking about them by name

Reviewer 4: "Rely on the cluster's existing AWS credentials for accessing Glue" (or something like that) is better

Reviewer: Updated https://deploy-preview-1633--redpanda-docs-preview.netlify.app/redpanda-cloud/manage/iceberg/iceberg-topics-aws-glue/#configure-authentication-and-credentials

* If you want to configure authentication to AWS Glue separately from authentication to S3, there are equivalent credential configuration properties named `iceberg_rest_catalog_aws_*` that override the object storage credentials. These properties only apply to REST catalog authentication, and never to S3 authentication:

> ** config_ref:iceberg_rest_catalog_credentials_source,true,properties/cluster-properties[`iceberg_rest_catalog_credentials_source`] overrides config_ref:cloud_storage_credentials_source,true,properties/cluster-properties[`cloud_storage_credentials_source`]. To use the broker's IAM role, set the property to `aws_instance_metadata`. To use static credentials, set to `config_file`.

Reviewer 4: @kbatuigas this doesn't track for me. This seems duplicate to the above ( the approach where it relies on the clusters existing IAM role), and so the conf would be already set to that.  It seems only the static credentials approach is the advanced option here right now? @simon0191  @wdberkeley  can you weigh in here?

Reviewer: Updated https://deploy-preview-1633--redpanda-docs-preview.netlify.app/redpanda-cloud/manage/iceberg/iceberg-topics-aws-glue/#configure-authentication-and-credentials

iceberg_catalog_type: rest
iceberg_rest_catalog_endpoint: https://glue.<glue-region>.amazonaws.com/iceberg
iceberg_rest_catalog_authentication_mode: aws_sigv4
# Because Tiered Storage does not support the use of distinct buckets for Iceberg,

> # always place iceberg_rest_catalog_base_location in the same S3 bucket as cloud_storage_bucket

Reviewer 4: @kbatuigas nobody knows what 'cloud_storage_bucket' means in Cloud. We need a pointer to docs with a screenshot of where they find the cluster bucket in the Cloud UI

Reviewer: @mattschumpert This is for the self-managed example, but I updated the descriptions in the Cloud version of the doc: https://deploy-preview-1633--redpanda-docs-preview.netlify.app/redpanda-cloud/manage/iceberg/iceberg-topics-aws-glue/#update-cluster-configuration If we can confirm whether the bucket name only shows up in the UI _after_ Iceberg is enabled, I'm not sure that pointing them to the UI is helpful in this specific step

  iceberg_rest_catalog_aws_region=<glue-region> \
  iceberg_rest_catalog_base_location=s3://<bucket-name>/<warehouse-path>
----
--

Static credentials::
+
--
[,bash]
----
# Glue requires Redpanda Iceberg tables to be manually deleted
# so iceberg_delete is set to false.
rpk cluster config set \
  iceberg_enabled=true \
  iceberg_delete=false \
  iceberg_catalog_type=rest \
  iceberg_rest_catalog_endpoint=https://glue.<glue-region>.amazonaws.com/iceberg \
  iceberg_rest_catalog_authentication_mode=aws_sigv4 \
  iceberg_rest_catalog_credentials_source=config_file \
  iceberg_rest_catalog_aws_region=<glue-region> \
  iceberg_rest_catalog_aws_access_key=<glue-access-key> \
  iceberg_rest_catalog_aws_secret_key='${secrets.<glue-secret-key-name>}' \
  iceberg_rest_catalog_base_location=s3://<bucket-name>/<warehouse-path>
----
--
======
+
Use your own values for the following placeholders:
+
--
- `<glue-region>`: The AWS region where your Data Catalog is located. The region in the AWS Glue endpoint must match the region specified in your config_ref:iceberg_rest_catalog_aws_region,true,properties/cluster-properties[`iceberg_rest_catalog_aws_region`] property.

> - `<bucket-name>` and `<warehouse-path>`: AWS Glue requires you to specify the base location where Redpanda stores Iceberg data and metadata files. You must use an S3 URI; for example, `s3://<bucket-name>/iceberg`. For BYOC clusters, the bucket name is `redpanda-cloud-storage-<cluster-id>`. For BYOVPC clusters, use the name of the bucket you created as a customer-managed resource.

Reviewer: @simon0191 Could you confirm that this is OK to add here, and should we update the table in [this doc](https://deploy-preview-1633--redpanda-docs-preview.netlify.app/redpanda-cloud/manage/iceberg/about-iceberg-topics/#access-iceberg-data) as well?

Use your own values for the following placeholders:
+
--
* `<glue-region>`: The AWS region where your Data Catalog is located. The region in the AWS Glue endpoint must match the region specified in either your config_ref:cloud_storage_region,true,properties/cluster-properties[`cloud_storage_region`] or config_ref:iceberg_rest_catalog_aws_region,true,properties/cluster-properties[`iceberg_rest_catalog_aws_region`] property.

> * `<bucket-name>` and `<warehouse-path>`: AWS Glue requires you to specify the base location where Redpanda stores Iceberg data and metadata files. You must use an S3 URI; for example, `s3://<bucket-name>/iceberg`. This must be the same bucket used for Tiered Storage (your `cloud_storage_bucket`). You cannot specify a different bucket for Iceberg data.

Reviewer 4: Same comment as above.  It's "the bucket provided (in BYOVPC) or created (BYOC) during cluster creation, which can be found HERE in the UI/API"

Reviewer: @mattschumpert This is for the [Self-managed version](https://deploy-preview-1622--redpanda-docs-preview.netlify.app/current/manage/iceberg/iceberg-topics-aws-glue/#update-cluster-configuration) of the doc. The cloud version looks like [this](https://deploy-preview-1633--redpanda-docs-preview.netlify.app/redpanda-cloud/manage/iceberg/iceberg-topics-aws-glue/#update-cluster-configuration). I'll explain in the placeholder description where the bucket name can be found

Reviewer: @simon0191 Is the bucket name only exposed in the UI after Iceberg is enabled? Both for BYOC and BYOVPC?

+

> `<warehouse-path>` is a name you choose (such as `iceberg`) as the logical name for the warehouse represented by all Redpanda Iceberg topic data in the cluster.

Reviewer 4: @wdberkeley should we also clarify with a tip 'this path only affects the S3 folder used for table storage and not the catalog name used by Glue.'  to select the catalog, you should configure the namespace.

@kbatuigas I assume we added thae custom namespace here too in Cloud docs ala (https://deploy-preview-1622--redpanda-docs-preview.netlify.app/current/manage/iceberg/iceberg-topics-aws-glue/#update-cluster-configuration)

I think it could be confusing as this name really isn't that important (just an implementation detail Glue forces them to set.

Reviewer: @simon0191 @wdberkeley is iceberg_default_catalog_namespace available yet in Cloud?

@mattschumpert It seems AWS also uses the "warehouse" terminology https://docs.aws.amazon.com/glue/latest/dg/aws-glue-programming-etl-format-iceberg.html not sure if we should change it to something else like `<subdirectory>` (I think the bucket-name and warehouse-path description later says to use a subfolder and not root)

+
As a security best practice, do not use the bucket root for the base location. Always specify a subfolder to avoid interfering with your cluster's data in object storage.
--
endif::[]
ifdef::env-cloud[]

> Use `rpk` like in the following examples, or use the Cloud API to xref:manage:cluster-maintenance/config-cluster.adoc#set-cluster-configuration-properties[update these cluster properties]. The update might take several minutes to complete.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use `rpk` as shown in the following examples, or use the Cloud API to xref:manage:cluster-maintenance/config-cluster.adoc#set-cluster-configuration-properties[update these cluster properties]. The update might take several minutes to complete.
```

  iceberg_rest_catalog_authentication_mode=aws_sigv4 \
  iceberg_rest_catalog_credentials_source=config_file \
  iceberg_rest_catalog_aws_region=<glue-region> \
  iceberg_rest_catalog_aws_access_key=<glue-access-key> \
  iceberg_rest_catalog_aws_secret_key='${secrets.<glue-secret-key-name>}' \
  iceberg_rest_catalog_base_location=s3://<cluster-storage-bucket-name>/<warehouse-path>
----
--
======
+
Use your own values for the following placeholders:
+
--
* `<glue-region>`: The AWS region where your Data Catalog is located. The region in the AWS Glue endpoint must match the region specified in your config_ref:iceberg_rest_catalog_aws_region,true,properties/cluster-properties[`iceberg_rest_catalog_aws_region`] property.
* `<cluster-storage-bucket-name>` and `<warehouse-path>`: AWS Glue requires you to specify the base location where Redpanda stores Iceberg data and metadata files. You must use an S3 URI; for example, `s3://<cluster-storage-bucket-name>/iceberg`.
** Bucket name: For BYOC clusters, the bucket name is `redpanda-cloud-storage-<cluster-id>`. For BYOVPC clusters, use the name of the bucket you created as a customer-managed resource. 
+

> This must be the same bucket used for Tiered Storage. You cannot specify a different bucket for Iceberg data.

Reviewer 4: (now that we have Cloud Topics and are moving terminology a bit):  'For the cluster's Cloud Storage'

@Feediver1 re-arranged Tiered Storage docs a bit I think to talk about 'Cloud Storage'

Reviewer: @mattschumpert Hm, looks like for Cloud Topics we say "enable cloud storage" and then "configure object storage" https://docs.redpanda.com/current/develop/manage-topics/cloud-topics/#prerequisites. 

Our [Tiered Storage](https://docs.redpanda.com/current/manage/tiered-storage/#enable-tiered-storage) doc still says set cloud_storage_mode=true to enable Tiered Storage

The Glue prereqs say "object storage configured for your cluster" so for consistency, it might just be easier to also say "This must be the same bucket used for your cluster's object storage"
